README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="Textream/Textream/Assets.xcassets/AppIcon.appiconset/icon_256x256.png" width="128" height="128" alt="Textream icon">
</p>

<h1 align="center">Textream</h1>

<p align="center">
  <strong>A free macOS teleprompter with real-time word tracking, classic auto-scroll, and voice-activated scrolling.</strong>
</p>

<p align="center">
  Built for streamers, interviewers, presenters, and podcasters.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#download">Download</a> · <a href="#features">Features</a> · <a href="#how-it-works">How It Works</a> · <a href="#building-from-source">Build</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/video.gif" width="600" alt="Textream demo">
</p>

---

## What is Textream?

Textream is a free, open-source macOS app that guides you through your script with three modes: **word tracking** (highlights each word as you say it), **classic** (constant-speed auto-scroll), and **voice-activated** (scrolls while you speak, pauses when you're silent). It displays your text in a sleek **Dynamic Island-style overlay** at the top of your screen, a **draggable floating window**, or **fullscreen on a Sidecar iPad** — visible only to you, invisible to your audience.

Paste your script, hit play, and start speaking. When you're done, the overlay closes automatically.

## Download

**[Download the latest .dmg from Releases](https://github.com/f/textream/releases/latest)**

Or install with Homebrew:

```bash
brew install f/textream/textream
```

> Requires **macOS 15 Sequoia** or later. Works on Apple Silicon and Intel.

### First launch

Since Textream is distributed outside the Mac App Store, macOS may block it on first open. Run this once in Terminal:

```bash
xattr -cr /Applications/Textream.app
```

Then right-click the app → **Open**. After the first launch, macOS remembers your choice.

## Features

### Guidance Modes

| Mode | Description | Microphone |
|---|---|---|
| **Word Tracking** (default) | On-device speech recognition highlights each word as you say it. No cloud, no latency, works offline. Supports dozens of languages. | Required |
| **Classic** | Auto-scrolls at a constant speed. No microphone needed. | Not needed |
| **Voice-Activated** | Scrolls while you speak, pauses when you're silent or muted. Perfect for natural pacing. | Required |

- **Scroll speed** — Adjustable 0.5–8 words/s for Classic and Voice-Activated modes.
- **Speech language** — Choose your preferred speech recognition language for Word Tracking mode.
- **Mouse scroll to catch up** — In Classic and Voice-Activated modes, scroll with your mouse to jump ahead or back. The timer pauses while you scroll and resumes from the new position.

### Overlay Modes

| Mode | Description |
|---|---|
| **Pinned to Notch** | A Dynamic Island–shaped overlay anchored below the MacBook notch. Sits above all apps. |
| **Floating Window** | A draggable window you can place anywhere on screen. Always on top. |
| **Fullscreen** | Fullscreen teleprompter on any display. Press **Esc** to stop. |

#### Pinned to Notch options

- **Follow Mouse** — The notch moves to whichever display your cursor is on.
- **Fixed Display** — Pin the notch to a specific screen.

#### Floating Window options

- **Follow Cursor** — The window follows your mouse cursor. A floating stop button lets you dismiss it.
- **Glass Effect** — Translucent frosted glass background with adjustable opacity (0–60%).

#### Fullscreen options

- **Display selection** — Choose which screen to show the fullscreen teleprompter on.
- **Esc to stop** — Press the Escape key to dismiss the fullscreen overlay.

### Size

- **Width** — Adjustable overlay width (280–500 px).
- **Height** — Adjustable text area height (100–400 px).

### Font & Color

| Setting | Options |
|---|---|
| **Font Family** | Sans, Serif, Mono, OpenDyslexic (dyslexia-friendly) |
| **Font Size** | XS (14 pt), SM (16 pt), LG (20 pt), XL (24 pt) |
| **Highlight Color** | White, Yellow, Green, Blue, Pink, Orange |

### External Display & Sidecar

| Mode | Description |
|---|---|
| **Off** | No external display output. |
| **Teleprompter** | Fullscreen teleprompter on the selected external display or Sidecar iPad. |
| **Mirror** | Flipped output for prompter mirror rigs. |

- **Mirror axis** — Horizontal (standard for mirrors), Vertical, or Both (180° rotation).
- **Target display** — Pick from connected external displays and Sidecar iPads.
- **Hide from screen share** — Hides the overlay from screen recordings and video calls.

### Remote Connection

View your teleprompter on **any device** — phone, tablet, or another computer — via a local network browser connection.

- **Enable in Settings → Remote** — Starts a lightweight HTTP + WebSocket server on your Mac.
- **QR code** — Scan the generated QR code from your phone or tablet to open the teleprompter instantly.
- **Real-time sync** — Words highlight, waveform animates, and progress updates in real time over WebSocket.
- **No app needed** — Works in any modern browser. No installation required on the remote device.
- **Configurable port** — Default port 7373, adjustable in advanced settings.
- **Fully local** — All traffic stays on your local network. Nothing leaves your Wi-Fi.

### File Support

- **PowerPoint notes import** — Drop a .pptx file to extract presenter notes as pages. For Keynote or Google Slides, export to PowerPoint first.
- **Save as .textream files** — Save your scripts as .textream files to reuse anytime. Keep your notes organized across presentations.
- **Multi-page support** — Navigate between pages with automatic advance. In follow-cursor mode, pages auto-advance with a 3-second countdown.

### Other

- **Live waveform** — Visual voice activity indicator so you always know the mic is picking you up.
- **Tap to jump** — Tap any word in the overlay to jump the tracker to that position.
- **Pause & resume** — Go off-script, take a break, come back. The tracker picks up where you left off.
- **Mute / unmute** — Toggle the microphone on or off from the overlay in any mode.
- **Completely private** — All processing happens on-device. No accounts, no tracking, no data leaves your Mac.
- **Auto update checker** — Checks GitHub Releases for new versions on launch and from the Textream menu.
- **Open source** — MIT licensed. Contributions welcome.

## Who it's for

| Use case | How Textream helps |
|---|---|
| **Streamers** | Read sponsor segments, announcements, and talking points without looking away from the camera. |
| **Interviewers** | Keep your questions visible while maintaining natural eye contact with your guest. |
| **Presenters** | Deliver keynotes, demos, and talks with confidence. Never lose your place. |
| **Podcasters** | Follow show notes, ad reads, and topic outlines hands-free while recording. |

## How It Works

1. **Paste your script** — Drop your talking points, interview questions, or full script into the text editor.
2. **Hit play** — The Dynamic Island overlay slides down from the top of your screen.
3. **Start speaking** — Words highlight in real-time as you read. When you finish, the overlay closes automatically.

## Building from Source

### Requirements

- macOS 15+
- Xcode 16+
- Swift 5.0+

### Build

```bash
git clone https://github.com/f/textream.git
cd textream/Textream
open Textream.xcodeproj
```

Build and run with ⌘R in Xcode.

### Project structure

```
Textream/
├── Textream.xcodeproj
├── Info.plist
└── Textream/
    ├── TextreamApp.swift              # App entry point, deep link handling
    ├── ContentView.swift              # Main text editor UI + About view
    ├── TextreamService.swift          # Service layer, URL scheme handling
    ├── SpeechRecognizer.swift         # On-device speech recognition engine
    ├── NotchOverlayController.swift   # Dynamic Island + floating overlay
    ├── ExternalDisplayController.swift # Sidecar / external display output
    ├── NotchSettings.swift            # User preferences and presets
    ├── SettingsView.swift             # Tabbed settings UI
    ├── MarqueeTextView.swift          # Word flow layout and highlighting
    ├── BrowserServer.swift            # Remote connection HTTP + WebSocket server
    ├── PresentationNotesExtractor.swift # PPTX presenter notes extraction
    ├── UpdateChecker.swift            # GitHub release update checker
    └── Assets.xcassets/               # App icon and colors
```

## URL Scheme

Textream supports the `textream://` URL scheme for launching directly into the overlay:

```
textream://read?text=Hello%20world
```

It also registers as a macOS Service, so you can select text in any app and send it to Textream via the Services menu.

## License

MIT

---

<p align="center">
  Original idea by <a href="https://x.com/semihdev">Semih Kışlar</a> — thanks to him!<br>
  Made by <a href="https://fka.dev">Fatih Kadir Akin</a>
</p>

Commit message:

Rename project from Textream to AutoPrompter
- Bundle identifier: com.johnjeong.autoprompter
- Rename all directories, files, classes, and references
- Update URL scheme to autoprompter://
- Update README with new branding and repo links

Co-Authored-By: Warp <agent@warp.dev>

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="AutoPrompter/AutoPrompter/Assets.xcassets/AppIcon.appiconset/icon_256x256.png" width="128" height="128" alt="AutoPrompter icon">
</p>

<h1 align="center">AutoPrompter</h1>

<p align="center">
  <strong>A free macOS teleprompter with real-time word tracking, classic auto-scroll, and voice-activated scrolling.</strong>
</p>

<p align="center">
  Built for streamers, interviewers, presenters, and podcasters.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#download">Download</a> · <a href="#features">Features</a> · <a href="#how-it-works">How It Works</a> · <a href="#building-from-source">Build</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/video.gif" width="600" alt="AutoPrompter demo">
</p>

---

## What is AutoPrompter?

AutoPrompter is a free, open-source macOS app that guides you through your script with three modes: **word tracking** (highlights each word as you say it), **classic** (constant-speed auto-scroll), and **voice-activated** (scrolls while you speak, pauses when you're silent). It displays your text in a sleek **Dynamic Island-style overlay** at the top of your screen, a **draggable floating window**, or **fullscreen on a Sidecar iPad** — visible only to you, invisible to your audience.

Paste your script, hit play, and start speaking. When you're done, the overlay closes automatically.

## Download

**[Download the latest .dmg from Releases](https://github.com/ComputelessComputer/autoprompter/releases/latest)**

Or install with Homebrew:

```bash
brew install ComputelessComputer/autoprompter/autoprompter
```

> Requires **macOS 15 Sequoia** or later. Works on Apple Silicon and Intel.

### First launch

Since AutoPrompter is distributed outside the Mac App Store, macOS may block it on first open. Run this once in Terminal:

```bash
xattr -cr /Applications/AutoPrompter.app
```

Then right-click the app → **Open**. After the first launch, macOS remembers your choice.

## Features

### Guidance Modes

| Mode | Description | Microphone |
|---|---|---|
| **Word Tracking** (default) | On-device speech recognition highlights each word as you say it. No cloud, no latency, works offline. Supports dozens of languages. | Required |
| **Classic** | Auto-scrolls at a constant speed. No microphone needed. | Not needed |
| **Voice-Activated** | Scrolls while you speak, pauses when you're silent or muted. Perfect for natural pacing. | Required |

- **Scroll speed** — Adjustable 0.5–8 words/s for Classic and Voice-Activated modes.
- **Speech language** — Choose your preferred speech recognition language for Word Tracking mode.
- **Mouse scroll to catch up** — In Classic and Voice-Activated modes, scroll with your mouse to jump ahead or back. The timer pauses while you scroll and resumes from the new position.

### Overlay Modes

| Mode | Description |
|---|---|
| **Pinned to Notch** | A Dynamic Island–shaped overlay anchored below the MacBook notch. Sits above all apps. |
| **Floating Window** | A draggable window you can place anywhere on screen. Always on top. |
| **Fullscreen** | Fullscreen teleprompter on any display. Press **Esc** to stop. |

#### Pinned to Notch options

- **Follow Mouse** — The notch moves to whichever display your cursor is on.
- **Fixed Display** — Pin the notch to a specific screen.

#### Floating Window options

- **Follow Cursor** — The window follows your mouse cursor. A floating stop button lets you dismiss it.
- **Glass Effect** — Translucent frosted glass background with adjustable opacity (0–60%).

#### Fullscreen options

- **Display selection** — Choose which screen to show the fullscreen teleprompter on.
- **Esc to stop** — Press the Escape key to dismiss the fullscreen overlay.

### Size

- **Width** — Adjustable overlay width (280–500 px).
- **Height** — Adjustable text area height (100–400 px).

### Font & Color

| Setting | Options |
|---|---|
| **Font Family** | Sans, Serif, Mono, OpenDyslexic (dyslexia-friendly) |
| **Font Size** | XS (14 pt), SM (16 pt), LG (20 pt), XL (24 pt) |
| **Highlight Color** | White, Yellow, Green, Blue, Pink, Orange |

### External Display & Sidecar

| Mode | Description |
|---|---|
| **Off** | No external display output. |
| **Teleprompter** | Fullscreen teleprompter on the selected external display or Sidecar iPad. |
| **Mirror** | Flipped output for prompter mirror rigs. |

- **Mirror axis** — Horizontal (standard for mirrors), Vertical, or Both (180° rotation).
- **Target display** — Pick from connected external displays and Sidecar iPads.
- **Hide from screen share** — Hides the overlay from screen recordings and video calls.

### Remote Connection

View your teleprompter on **any device** — phone, tablet, or another computer — via a local network browser connection.

- **Enable in Settings → Remote** — Starts a lightweight HTTP + WebSocket server on your Mac.
- **QR code** — Scan the generated QR code from your phone or tablet to open the teleprompter instantly.
- **Real-time sync** — Words highlight, waveform animates, and progress updates in real time over WebSocket.
- **No app needed** — Works in any modern browser. No installation required on the remote device.
- **Configurable port** — Default port 7373, adjustable in advanced settings.
- **Fully local** — All traffic stays on your local network. Nothing leaves your Wi-Fi.

### File Support

- **PowerPoint notes import** — Drop a .pptx file to extract presenter notes as pages. For Keynote or Google Slides, export to PowerPoint first.
- **Save as .autoprompter files** — Save your scripts as .autoprompter files to reuse anytime. Keep your notes organized across presentations.
- **Multi-page support** — Navigate between pages with automatic advance. In follow-cursor mode, pages auto-advance with a 3-second countdown.

### Other

- **Live waveform** — Visual voice activity indicator so you always know the mic is picking you up.
- **Tap to jump** — Tap any word in the overlay to jump the tracker to that position.
- **Pause & resume** — Go off-script, take a break, come back. The tracker picks up where you left off.
- **Mute / unmute** — Toggle the microphone on or off from the overlay in any mode.
- **Completely private** — All processing happens on-device. No accounts, no tracking, no data leaves your Mac.
- **Auto update checker** — Checks GitHub Releases for new versions on launch and from the AutoPrompter menu.
- **Open source** — MIT licensed. Contributions welcome.

## Who it's for

| Use case | How AutoPrompter helps |
|---|---|
| **Streamers** | Read sponsor segments, announcements, and talking points without looking away from the camera. |
| **Interviewers** | Keep your questions visible while maintaining natural eye contact with your guest. |
| **Presenters** | Deliver keynotes, demos, and talks with confidence. Never lose your place. |
| **Podcasters** | Follow show notes, ad reads, and topic outlines hands-free while recording. |

## How It Works

1. **Paste your script** — Drop your talking points, interview questions, or full script into the text editor.
2. **Hit play** — The Dynamic Island overlay slides down from the top of your screen.
3. **Start speaking** — Words highlight in real-time as you read. When you finish, the overlay closes automatically.

## Building from Source

### Requirements

- macOS 15+
- Xcode 16+
- Swift 5.0+

### Build

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ComputelessComputer/autoprompter.git
cd autoprompter/AutoPrompter
open AutoPrompter.xcodeproj
```

Build and run with ⌘R in Xcode.

### Project structure

```
AutoPrompter/
├── AutoPrompter.xcodeproj
├── Info.plist
└── AutoPrompter/
    ├── AutoPrompterApp.swift              # App entry point, deep link handling
    ├── ContentView.swift              # Main text editor UI + About view
    ├── AutoPrompterService.swift          # Service layer, URL scheme handling
    ├── SpeechRecognizer.swift         # On-device speech recognition engine
    ├── NotchOverlayController.swift   # Dynamic Island + floating overlay
    ├── ExternalDisplayController.swift # Sidecar / external display output
    ├── NotchSettings.swift            # User preferences and presets
    ├── SettingsView.swift             # Tabbed settings UI
    ├── MarqueeTextView.swift          # Word flow layout and highlighting
    ├── BrowserServer.swift            # Remote connection HTTP + WebSocket server
    ├── PresentationNotesExtractor.swift # PPTX presenter notes extraction
    ├── UpdateChecker.swift            # GitHub release update checker
    └── Assets.xcassets/               # App icon and colors
```

## URL Scheme

AutoPrompter supports the `autoprompter://` URL scheme for launching directly into the overlay:

```
autoprompter://read?text=Hello%20world
```

It also registers as a macOS Service, so you can select text in any app and send it to AutoPrompter via the Services menu.

## License

MIT

---

<p align="center">
  Original idea by <a href="https://x.com/semihdev">Semih Kışlar</a> — thanks to him!<br>
  Made by <a href="https://fka.dev">Fatih Kadir Akin</a>
</p>
